hello everyone hello good evening well
we're here for a very special night with
guards in life I'm Matt Ford and tonight
I'm interviewing one of the biggest
names in global comedy and one the most
recognizable satirist on the planet his
new book born a crime which I'm sure
many of you've read and if you haven't
they're on sale afterwards it's a
phenomenal story of Trevor's life
growing up in apartheid South Africa
it's emotional it's hilarious and it's
insightful please give a big welcome to
Trevor Noah
hello everybody good evening
I'll take that is it is it like this
everywhere you go this is fun we have
our own Bibles we can play again this is
nice this is nice good evening how you
guys doing good
yes hello thank you for coming out so
this is probably one of the smallest
gigs you've done actually this is big no
this is nice this is cozy but but big
it's a it's a phenomenal book born a
crime and I'm not just saying that I'm
interviewing you it is genuinely
wonderful and there are so many things
as I'm sure the people in the audience
that have read and we will do audience
questions later on and we'll know that
it's funny imparts it's violent what
really strikes me is that really it
feels like it's a tribute to your mother
well that's really what the book became
you know when I started writing the book
I wrote it as it was my book that's what
it was supposed to be I set out to write
a book about my stories me growing up
you know my heroic escapades and then
when I got to the end of the book and I
coalesced all the stories I realized
that my mom was the hero of my story I
was just basically her punk-ass sidekick
you know and I'm glad it happened
organically because had I set out to
write a book about my mother I don't
think I would have done it in the
correct way and I'm glad the pieces fell
into place but really it that's the
truth it's a story that really
celebrates my mom it turned into a love
letter to my mom as opposed to it being
a story about how as a child I braved
the odds it's a phenomenal relationship
we can have with it's not just a
traditional mother-son relationship you
are like her sidekick your best mates
one of the things that really strikes me
in the book is when someone asks you mum
why she wanted to have a child she said
she wanted to feel what unconditional
love was yeah which is really I mean
heartbreakingly honest that she had you
to feel loved herself well that was the
one the one thing that I shared with my
mom that I talked about in the book
consistently is my mom is a brutally
honest person you know and as a child I
often did not enjoy that honesty
you know because of what I saw as
parents on TV and in the rest of the
world it was you know people who were
particularly vague with the child and
didn't really you know share their
emotions with their child but my mom was
honest you know she said to me she says
I didn't feel loved in the world I
didn't feel I didn't have love for my
father I didn't have love for my mother
I I felt like I wanted something that
would love me unconditionally and that
is why I wanted a child I wanted my
unconditional love and then she goes on
to say she then had me and then gave
birth to the most selfish piece of
that ever existed it just eats and
sleeps and shits and cries and you know
and then my mom realized that you know
the unconditional love was something she
would have to give to me and and so I
I'm eternally grateful but I found that
quite funny she never lets me live that
down she goes she goes I thought it was
gonna love me and then this little and
she talks about it like it's not me you
know she was great and this thing in
that did little on is just there is
just all it screamed and it's love me
love me and I'm like what about me
because I don't care about you and you
know so so yeah that's that's really why
she why she wanted to have me there's
some great stories in there really funny
stories about your mom but they're also
I mean scrapes isn't quite the word
genuine danger and I think specifically
to that bus journey that you're on where
she literally has to throw you off a
moving bus for fear that the bus driver
is that was certainly gonna kill you at
that yeah and it's told with a sort of
panache of a stand up but that must have
been absolutely petrified you know I
think a lot of the time what people take
for granted or maybe maybe I I think
people do is is how aware you are of the
danger you are in sometimes when you
grow up in a society where you know
violence is always around the next
corner you find a lot of the time you
don't have time to think and dwell in
the danger that you may be in you know
in the same thing happened to us growing
up in South Africa during this time you
know it was a nation that was obviously
you know forged through violence and
violence was an undercurrent and and
still continues to be in our country
and you know during that instance I
don't even think I thought of it as
being excessive danger if that makes
sense you know I grew up in a world
where with my friends you know sometimes
we were walking to go home we would we'd
have to walk through certain fields or
certain you know open spaces and you
knew that people got robbed or killed
there that like so you lived in this
world where you were constantly aware of
the danger you were hyper aware of it so
on the day in question when I was in a
minibus you know what we call a taxi in
South Africa and and my mother basically
threw me out of the car because these
men were most likely or they threatened
to and there's a good chance that they
might have done you know grievous harm
to us I didn't think to myself this is
the scariest thing that's ever happened
to me
I was just like my mom threw me out of a
car you know that was like the big I was
like I'm sure there was another way we
could have got out of this situation
ended with me being thrown out of the
car and and and once again in that story
when I tell it you know it's it's MIT
myself and my mom and we're navigating
through a through a really stressful
situation but when push came to shove I
always trusted her and I was knew that
she's on my team so in that situation
when my mom said Ronnie I ran I never
ever thought about it you know it's it's
an instinct and and an instinct that is
that is honed when you grow up in
certain places I always think to myself
it's the same way you know baby gazelle
and the Serengeti when its mom starts
running it's not gonna be like what
what's going on that's happening mom
runs you run and then when you get to
where you're going you ask the questions
you ask her a lot of questions actually
particularly about faith it seems and
some of the great exchanges written
almost like sitcom scenes between you
and your mother and her faith and one
thing I couldn't figure out from the
book was whether you believe in God or
not I think in terms of religion I do
believe in God so in mindful of where we
are in oh that's funny
in terms of religion though I I found
increasingly I'm I'm a spiritual person
but I am constantly frustrated by the
way religion is
translates it all the way religion is
interpreted to help people oppress other
people that is something that that has
always weighed on me when it comes to
religion so when my mom and I would go
back and forth like for instance you
know about church one of my mom's most
frustrating moments with me was the fact
that she taught me to be logical and she
taught me to challenge her you know she
taught me to challenge everything in
life and so when it came to religion I
was afforded the same leeway she said
you must challenge me you must ask me
these questions so that I can go back
and read the Bible and give you the
answers don't just take what I say and
so I did that you know my mom told me to
challenge her and I obliged
you know I obliged at every turn and and
what happened was essentially I you know
I would question the way people used
religion including my mom and we would
play with that with that's a given that
was a theme that went through our lives
is the way is the way I would I would
look at how you can trance you know how
you can translate a text and how you can
use it differently in your life there's
some wonderful examples of her belief
that almost everything is a sign from
God yes particularly when the car
continue breaks down the Volkswagen car
when you're on the way to I think he's
to go to three different church masses
every Sunday and when the car breaks
down you see it as a sign that God
saying you don't have to go to church
she sees it as a challenge from God to
prove her faith to get the hands-on yeah
I am I could read it for you if you want
I mean if you I have the I find
sometimes yeah I mean I wrote the thing
so sometimes well that's a different bit
that's a lie this is I'm trying to think
of what chapter that's in that's going
to be thank you Wow look at that oh this
is fun this is fun what page this is
exciting
I'm going to get to that part he asked
for okay so here here we go
this was this was like the type of
exchange my mom and I would have I was
at the time if you want to picture me
accurately I was a very cute
plump child very cheeky unkempt hair and
my mom was a beautiful very strong black
woman a lot skinnier than people think
she is for some reason a lot of people
say to me they think of my mom is like a
big woman like a star but she wasn't
she's very tomboyish very slender so if
you're picturing a person that's the
wrong person my pictures it's weird a
lot of people have said that I don't
know why I told you that now but a lot
of people just said to me I thought when
I see your picture of your mom I thought
she was completely different she is not
so you know what I think that is why and
I know I pictured a like that until you
described her later in the book there's
one bit where you describe you as Tom
and Jerry you and her
yes and therefore I've pictured as the
mum from something that's what your mom
was like sort of chasing you around the
house so here we go
my mother is as stubborn as she is
religious once her mind's made up that's
it indeed obstacles that would normally
lead a person to change their plans
like for instance a car breaking down
only made her more determined to forge
ahead it's the devil she said about the
stalled car the devil doesn't want us to
go to church that's why we've got to
catch mini buses whenever I found myself
up against my mother's faith obstinacy I
would try as respectfully as possible to
counter with an oppose
points of view oh I said the Lord knows
that today we shouldn't go to church
which is why he made sure the car
wouldn't start so that we stay at home
as a family and take a day of rest
because even the Lord rested ah that's
the devil talking Trevor no because
Jesus is in control and if Jesus is in
control and we pray to Jesus he would
let the car starts but he hasn't
therefore no Trevor
sometimes Jesus puts obstacles in your
way to see if you overcome them like job
this could be a test yes mam but the
test could be to see if we're willing to
accept what has happened and stay at
home and praise Jesus for his wisdom no
Java ha that's the devil talking now go
change your clothes
but mom Trevor hey Carla and it carries
on but from Kerala is basically a very
simple phrase in my mom's language Casa
which is it means do not undermine me
and many children who come from you know
immigrant families or if you have
families that come and they speak
another language besides English you
will know when your parents switches
into their home language conversation is
done that's that's pretty much it when
your when my mom would vacate English
then I knew the conversation was over as
soon as you mention that because
language plays a big part of the book
and that should be part of your identity
within your family and within your
friendship group because you can speak
various different language through your
age yes you can speak the different
tribal languages of South Africa as well
as speak in English and what well there
are two things that fascinate me about
one is that you say when you remember
things you remember them in English
effectively even if people were talking
a different language your brain stores
them as English and I think it's your
grandma or is it your auntie believes
that if you pray in English your prayers
are more likely to be answered yeah
because that's the language that white
people watch well there is
that is that is really you know that to
answer the questions I guess an in
sequence I learned very early on how
powerful language could be I learned
very early on how powerful language was
as a tool that would help you navigate
and give you access you know in two
different worlds and more importantly
into people's hearts you know I grew up
in a country where we have right now we
have 11 official languages but before
they were official they would they
existed you know we have 11 different
languages in the country and because of
apartheid people didn't often learn
other people's languages you know so
even amongst the African tribes in the
country people didn't necessarily speak
other languages Zulu people were not
necessarily immersed in class although
they did understand it because it was
from the same language tree but then
someone who spoke let's say it's wrong I
wouldn't understand what somebody was
saying in in Songdo or in Zulu and it
did and so on
most people spoke Afrikaans which is a
derivative of Dutch because the
government you know that was one of the
languages of instruction one of the
languages of oppression which a lot of
people fought against but I was always
shocked at how simple it was to
communicate with people of you if you
just switched into their language and so
again learning from my mom I you know
people get impressed when I say I speak
six languages and I go but my mom speaks
9 so I'm an underachiever and my family
you know and and and my mommy just did
it because it speeds up the process
means of communicating and so language
is one of those tools that I used and
language was a tool that the apartheid
governments also used and I noticed that
when it came to my grandmother where my
own gran it's really smart woman
fantastic mind but sometimes even she
would betray the fact that she had been
influenced so heavily by you know what
she had been taught and one of those
things came to praying my grandmother
prayed in Xhosa even though she's fluent
in English but she would she would pray
in casa and when we would pray as a
family we would have prayer meetings at
the house and she would ask me to pray
on behalf of the family because i prayed
in english and you know she always said
like think like I spoke like the English
that I had no accent I had no African
accent I you know she was like you're
speaking real real English and so she
believed that God would hear my prayers
before hers because the God that she had
been taught to worship was an English
God you know God had been translated
into Zulu but he wasn't originally you
know and I mean now when - you're old
and you learned you like oh wait God's
not even English apparently but that's
besides the point
so my grandmother was like you speak his
language tell him what we need tell him
about what's going on and I would be
like but you you Yuki speaks every
language is like yes but that one is a
shortcut you know and and I remember
once like as kids because my gran is one
of the funniest wittiest but she has
like dry humid like I don't even think
sometimes I don't know if she's telling
a joke or not and it's so funny and I
can't tell because she never betrays it
with a laugh and I said to my gran one
day I said I said but go go I said I
said why do you think you know English
and Zulu is difference of play why don't
you why don't you pray in whatever
language she's a praying English English
is better and I said but that's that's
not true and then she said but then why
do white people have it so good
and she says if they clearly you can see
their prayers are being answered that's
all we've got to get going pray they're
free and so i pregnant language as you
said it is it's so important and it's
something that much we not speak
languages being able to connect with
different communities and understand
people that is something that it's
really troubling about modern politics
obviously in your incarnation as the
host of the globally successful Daily
Show must be something that troubles you
about what will happen under Trump's
America is his attitudes towards
different communities yeah well you know
what's interesting is I find that
language is even you know when you break
it down even in English there are almost
hidden languages and and that's where
accents I always go accents or like the
the hidden languages of language you
know people go can you speak English but
then I go yes but which English can you
speak and it's not just in America's not
just in something in the UK you see that
as well you know I was fascinated when I
first came to the UK and I saw how
differently people would be treated just
because of how they spoke in my head
these were all characters from you know
a TV show but British people would got a
whole yeah he's got you know he sounds
like he's he's this Girl Scouts accent
he's got this accent he's got oh yeah I
know you can hear he's not you know and
I was like what does what does that mean
I was like ah well you can hear it yeah
from Liverpool and as I thought what
does what does that mean I don't
understand what that means and I came to
realize that in the UK you know people
would judge you based on your accent so
if you sound like a posh person then all
of a sudden you would you know seem to
be more intelligent or you seem to which
I never understood I mean I yeah I
remember hearing Boris Johnson for the
first time and I was like this person
seems like a rambling fool I don't
understand
I don't understand like what he's saying
but but he must sit brilliantly in my
opinion with that unite only on the
outskirts of this issue oh no we got
your burger and then people were like oh
yes it's very row yeah yeah and I was
like no that's like what is
that but that's the power that's the
power of an accent that's the power of a
language you know and and unfortunately
that's the downside as well because you
see that in America right now a lot of
people that are anti-immigrant when they
say that they're specifically referring
to immigrants who do not have a grasp of
the language they are specifically
referring when you say anti-immigrant
sentiment they're not talking about you
know immigrants from Britain because
Americans go like oh no no they that's
like a safe immigrants but often times I
find people are less likely to welcome
you when you seem to be almost invading
their language and that is what an
accent feels like if somebody speaks
like you you feel like they are like you
but if somebody speaks your language
with an accent you feel like the person
is intruding they're taking what is
yours and they're trying to break it
it's a strange thing that happens in
your mind so what what attitudes have
you faced in America not just with your
comedy but specifically the accent oh I
must member when I when I first took
over the Daily Show that was one of the
biggest things I quickly realized as how
many people hated me just because of my
accents you know and I understood that
as a visceral thing you don't even
understand you why don't I like this
person why don't I like his jokes why
don't I like his opinions because they
are coming at me in a different accent
and and that's a you know I'm glad I was
aware of it because if you don't know
sometimes you you you wouldn't know why
you were connecting or not connecting
with people you wouldn't realize what
tools you can use to try and subvert
what is happening you know but it's the
same way children's television
presenters know you speak a different
way to connect with children yeah you
know when you
you trying to connect with an audience
that has an accent that is different to
yours
you start to realize I realized
rhythmically that there were tools you
can use that just help tune you into the
ear of the listener without you changing
who you are what you're saying it's not
first name because you would presume
perhaps wrongly that the majority of
viewers of The Daily Show would be kind
of liberal left people people who
identify as more open-minded and yet
even they had negative attitudes toward
you because of your accent but that is
better that is what people always do
people always surprise you you know and
and I think all too often we are not as
self-critical as we should be you know
even if you consider yourself a
progressive or a liberal
a lot of the time I've met liberals of
progressive where I go like sometimes in
their progressiveness they will be
racist but in a patronizing way you know
and as a comedian I love playing with
that I don't think I figured out race I
think it's a constantly evolving thing
even though it's a construct we have to
admit it's a construct that we are we're
still living with in right now and I'm
always fascinated by how those types of
things happen like I remember one one
person said to me and it was honestly
one message that stuck with me forever
because of the irony it was a person and
they treated me and they said I hate
what you I'm a longtime fan of The Daily
Show I hate what you've done bring Jon
Stewart back go back to Djibouti
and I didn't know how to process that
information because I was like well if
you were really a fan of John Stewart I
know Jon Stewart personally I'm like I
don't think he shares your views in
terms of go back through anywhere 'no so
so you you are saying to me go back to
your country because I want my liberal
shuttle back it was a lucrative job to
write that ready but uh but yeah that's
that's a that's a that's an interesting
thing there's many instances we have
seen it where we stumble into it
sometimes and you know it's it's almost
I don't know what to call it I you know
III never act like I've studied this
stuff and you know it's hyper hyper
delivers a little liberalism more
neoliberal whatever it is I I just look
at it on the face of it very simply and
I go one of my favorite examples it was
a random random story for me during the
the euro
you know the euro football championships
and I'll never forget it was the the
Dutch football team they were training
and this was in I think it was the Czech
Republic or it was one of those
countries with her hosting tournaments
and the players were training and the
stadium was empty save for a few fans
and then people started throwing bananas
onto the pitch you know and it became a
huge story or racist incident races
incident my favorite though was in in
the telling of the story was the Dutch
captain who said you know these fans
were in the stands and they started
making monkey sounds and throwing
bananas onto the pitch and the Dutch
captain you know he was their best of
them and he apologized to all the black
players he said hey I'm sorry for this
it's racist and in that moment I said
but how do you know that the bananas
were aimed at the black eye
because there are 22 people on the pitch
and you'd like this is a training
session it's just the Dutch team there
was no one else there
someone threw the banana and immediately
the guy was like man I'm so sorry about
that
and you go why are you sorry because
they threw the bananas they racist and I
was always like hey if one guy said well
how do you know that's that bananas for
me
he's like why no it's not for me I mean
why would you throw a banana at me and I
found that funny I was like just you
know the implied notion that you would
think you would immediately go well look
you are the banana but I'm offended for
you but that's your banana my friend and
that sometimes what happens is even on a
liberal side if you're not careful and
as long as a patronizing thing that it's
an overcorrection sometimes that happens
where the racism spools the other way
and as a person Okada's answer is just
going like wait what just happened here
I find it interesting but I suppose
you'd rather have a situation where
people are aware of race and are
sensitive to it then people just be
completely closed-minded oh yeah you
know I look I always go I you know
growing up in South Africa and that's
that's what I talk about in the book is
apartheid truly you know people ask me
often times people will say Trevor why
why are you so focused on race why do
you always talk about race I say because
it's net it's not going away and it's
it's such a powerful tool that you can
find at the base of so many issues that
we have you know race is something that
was artificially created to oppress
people that is what it that's the truth
of the matter race is something that was
created to oppress people you cannot
deny that in talking about race you
cannot have a conversation about race
and not accept the fact that it came to
be for that specific reason and
apartheid was the best example of that
you know the the whole idea of apartheid
was the South African government at the
time needed to find perfect racism and
so they sent a commission around the
world to study racism
you know they went to Australia they
went to the Netherlands they went to the
United States and they studied racism to
see what the pitfalls of those systems
were and to figure out how they could
implement a more watertight solution and
I think they did
I honestly think a part that was the
most perfect racism we've seen in
history because what it did was it
managed to divide not only black and
white which is most what most people
think of apartheid as they go black and
white
no but apartheid was specific apartheid
was precise it worked on separating even
people who were fighting on the same
side the part ID was telling to black
people that they were actually different
and so tribally they should be opposed
apartheid was telling a mixed-race child
a biracial child that he was superior to
his mother but inferior to his white
father apartheid was about creating a
world where you know one of the things
that was the most painful for me is
realizing that you know during apartheid
if you were a person who was my skin
colour they called you they call this
coloured alright and colored you didn't
have the world you know you weren't
black you weren't white there was even a
term in South Africa colloquially used
and that was clear in Afrikaans they
called it ampere Pass which means you
were almost the master and and that as
crazy as it seems that was literally
what it was you were almost you know a
lot of colour people were told you could
be white it's just your connection to
black is holding you back you know it's
almost like it would be like I mean we'd
let you in but we don't know who come in
with you and so what happened is you're
on you're in the country they would
reclassify people as white or black you
know the government would come out every
year and they'd go like this like oh you
know they'd be delicious that would come
out and they'd say you have now been
reclassified you could be a colored
person and if you became light enough
and your hair became straight enough
voila you were now a white person and
your life will change immediately you
know the same thing could happen inverse
if you were a white person who had the
misfortune of over tanning and your hair
was too curly they could question this
and if that question was you know was
was answered incorrectly basically you
would become colored imagine that all of
a sudden and families were being ripped
apart by this families would be ripped
apart either by their own decision or
you know by the decision of the law but
that was the power of apartheid is
convincing people to blame the other for
what is happening to them and that is a
powerful tool that we continue to see
being used you know in in in our
modern-day society as well
and it's something that affected you
personally and very specifically because
having a black mother and having a white
father you as the title of the book
suggests born a crime under the law of
South Africa at the time but what
fascinates me about there are so many
threads that run through the book one of
them is definitely that you are growing
up in incredible poverty in intense
violence around you and yet because you
have slightly lighter skin within that
context you're relatively privileged
relative to your female relatives yes
relative to other people that you go to
school with so it's this sort of odd you
get favorable treatment but you're still
being suppressed well that's the thing
that a lot of people struggle with in
the world is acknowledging your
privilege you know it's very tough to
acknowledge privilege I sometimes think
maybe it's just because of the word we
use and that is privilege you know
people always think of privilege as
implying wealth and health and resources
you you know when people who like
privilege then you'll see poor white
people saying well I'm not rich so
where's my privilege you know I don't
have money and resources where's my
privilege and then I sometimes think
maybe we should have used use it the
other way maybe we shouldn't have said
white privilege maybe we should have
said black disadvantaged you know female
disadvantaged like those are because
it's true there are you know there are
impediments to having certain
characteristics and we know this is true
in society and I even acknowledge this
in my life and and I guess that's who I
am as a person is I I really try and put
myself in another person's shoes
regardless doesn't matter how crazy that
person is I think to myself I'm going to
try and think like you I'm going to try
and work in this world and I you know I
realized why it's so hard to acknowledge
your privilege because you you have to
deal with your guilt and for me as
stupid as it sounds it was in my own
family my grandmother and grandfather
treated me differently to every other
cousin in my family because I was the
little white child in their eyes my own
grandparents they loved me and they
never said that to me but for instance
my grandfather when we would drive
around always made me sit in the back of
the car because he used to say the
master sits in their back and everything
else he did was normal with me you know
he would still chastise me if I was
doing something naughty he would still
ask me to go and do stuff with him he
still had authority over me as a
grandfather but he would refer to me
with the respect of the white man you
know so he'd be like Master please go
and buy me some beer you know it's like
a weird construct the way he was going
I'm student I respect you but you're my
grandson master you know my grandmother
never ever administered a beating you
know my grandmother never beat me that
was something and you know a growing up
in South Africa a lot of the time men
were away for extended periods working
or imprisoned and so you you lived in a
matriarchal society grandmother's often
raised the children because mothers were
away working and my grandmother will you
know she she would be responsible for
disciplining all the kids and one day
for instance we were in the house myself
and my cousins and we were playing
doctor and I was performing surgery on
my cousins yeah and during the surgery
one of my tools the matchstick I was
using perforated her eardrum
these things happen in surgery and so
she started bleeding and she was in
immense pain and my grandmother came in
and cuz she heard my cousin crying and
my grand what's going on it was blood
and she you know she panicked and she
cleaned the blood and and then once she
realized you know my cousin was was
fairly okay then she beat her and then
and then she beat my cousin because he
was also playing the game with us
and really he was just a bystander he
was in the waiting room but whatever
and so she beat him because he was the
eldest he should have been looking after
us and then she looked at me and she
just she just shook herself and then she
left the room and now I'm standing there
my cousins have been beaten I don't know
what's just happened here you know in my
head I'm like what I don't know I guess
I didn't know what had happened and that
evening my mom came home and she found
my grand crying in the kitchen and you
know my gran was there my mom said
what's wrong what's wrong what's wrong
mama and and my grandson would know T so
no to you and no you must beat him then
what do you mean if he's not you you
must you must beat him that's what he
that's what he's for he must hit him and
and my grandma's like no no no Bhushan I
can't hit him I can't it never you I
can't hit him she's I'm so scared to hit
him I can hit the other children but I
can't hit him I'm almost like why she
says you she says because with black
children I know how to hit them I know I
hit them and then I know what's going to
happen with Trevor I've seen when you
hit him he becomes blue and green
I don't know what's happening like I
don't want to kill a white child and
that's that's my own grandmother my own
grandmother afraid of administering
discipline because she feared that she
would be breaking the law in in and out
in our house she didn't want to hurt a
white child and in that situation I
acknowledge like as a child I didn't
think of it as a child I honestly
thought it was because I was Trevor I
just thought I was special
yeah I was just like yeah I'm the
favorite kid that's that's how it works
hard luck but when I look back ago that
was my privilege you know now if I had I
known that would be a situation where
I'd have to step up and say hey grant I
noticed that you didn't hit me even
though I was part of this and so I think
it's only fair that I received the same
level of punishment as my black cousin's
have but there was no chance I was gonna
do that because that's the one thing we
never want to admit is privilege is
pretty great it's a sweet thing so it's
like if you just acknowledge it though
you can move a conversation for a lot of
the time people don't want to act like
it exists and that can be a frustrating
hurdle to try and get over if you're
trying to have these conversations it is
I mean it's remarkable that you didn't
get more beatings really because no I
got beatings from my mom from your
mother but yeah she made up for every
single beating my ram didn't give me but
from other people because you come
across it in the book it's kind of
naughty but not nasty no I was never I
was never even in school but my teachers
my teachers will always tell you I'm
extremely respectful they were just like
when the teachers back was turned
there was chaos I loved being a clown in
class I love making I just like making
people laugh so you couldn't tie me down
but when it came to Authority
you wouldn't any of my report cards
you'd never see a Trevor's disrespectful
Trevor it was just he he's constantly
joking around he's just he needs to
apply himself that was the that was all
the teachers said but he did burn a
house down no no no no a house burned
down because of me there is a difference
there is a distinct difference what
happened was I was I was always
fascinated by the world and one of the
things that fascinated me was fire you
know I do not feel that we we fully
understand it and it's and its majesty
and so I was always interested in
different ways to create fire in this
particular instance I was I just learned
about the magnifying glass and so with a
friend we were playing with a magnifying
glass and we would you know conducting
different experience it was science
really and what happened was you know
the experiment went haywire and a house
burned down in the process but I mean
this is this is what science is meant to
be you know think about it you know it's
like it's like Jefferson said it's like
it's like you've learned ways not to do
it I learned how not to create fun I was
created a big fire to be honest though I
but I was very naughty I was I was a
little terror I acknowledged that but
kind of charming terror one thing that
really strikes me from the book actually
is that you say you make fun of wrong
doll yes and it really reminded me of
boy his book about his childhood and it
felt like it I don't know whether that
he was subconsciously it may be
influenced by that star but it felt just
like this this wonderful collection of
capers and scrapes and adventures of a
young child's of running through streets
and getting into trouble it's funny I
don't think boy ever influenced me as
much as the other books of Roald Dahl
did you know because of I was always
more intrigued by the fantasy of his
other works you know boy was too
realistic for me in Australia I was like
yeah this is like reading about my life
whatever just you know a tame version of
how I lived but I was more connected to
you know the you know all these other
works it was you know the Giant Peach or
you know whether it was the Chocolate
Factory and you know and and the
wonderful world of Henry sugar and all
of these stories that that I that I
connected with because I got to escape
really you know though those were those
were the world's I wanted to live in and
oftentimes those were the worlds
I could connect as well it was an
outsider you know it's this lone
character who is in a world that they
shouldn't be in you know you look at
Charlie was it was poor you know got
this golden ticket and the next thing
you know he was in a world and all these
other kids were nothing like him they
told him he didn't belong there because
he didn't deserve you know he didn't
deserve his ticket and a lot of the time
I felt like I grew up like that and and
you know and then he went through this
journey and then inherited this giant
you know Factory and he never
anticipated it and I feel like that's
almost what happened to me with John
Stewart so I got this random golden
ticket and then the next thing you know
I'm running at Chocolate Factory you
know but those but those stories really
connected with me all all books that
were fantastical connected with me do
you reflect I mean people love a rags to
riches story obviously and but yours is
so extreme really in in the scale of it
even just geographically to go from
apartheid South Africa to the pinnacle
of global satire in America on a show
that is beamed around to countries all
around the planet yeah I mean that's not
just growing up in a working-class area
or ended up in the cabinet that is
almost which is also just as hard from
what I understand in England to
preparing these at the moment
other periods we're not necessary that
you pinch yourself but you're in New
York or LA or wherever you think you
can't believe you're the same person
that lived to the life that you lived
definitely one thing I would honestly
I'd recommend this to anybody it is a
grueling experience you will hate
moments of it but write your story write
it for yourself write it for your
friends write it for your family that's
really why I wrote the book I wrote it
for the people in my life and I wrote it
the way I would have wanted them to hear
me tell the stories and that's the way I
figured I would find the most authentic
manner to to to to share all of this
because if I told it to strangers I
would be too afraid if I shared my pain
with people I did not know I don't think
I would have been as forthcoming but I
told the stories for people that I loved
and that's what I put into the book and
one thing I'll tell you I got out of it
was an appreciation of every person and
every moment that has gotten me to where
I am today it also made me realize more
than I ever think I did how much I
deserve to be where I am today
and and that is something that I've I've
allowed people to steal from me at times
I think we all do in our lives you know
we feel guilty for achieving sometimes
we feel guilty for being in a place that
we are in sometimes you know it's almost
a survivor's remorse it's the world
telling you why you why you as opposed
to you going why not me you know and and
once I wrote the book and I sat with and
I actually looked through the stories
because it happens over such a long
period of time and you know people go
this is an action-packed life but for me
I go it's I don't think it's
action-packed I go there are 18 stories
from 20 years like if it's one story a
year I go like oh I was a boring Europe
you know but I do understand that that
it is it is you know there's a fairly
intense story one that many people
haven't been lucky enough to not live
but but I genuinely acknowledge that I
go I go my family and I
went through a lot I went through a lot
and the fact that I am where I am today
is in my mom's words a miracle does she
visit you in America
never never my mom would never ever ever
have like maybe I could bribe her if I
had a grandkid that would be the only
way I could trick my mom my mom hates
traveling understand that my grandmother
explained it to me the best and that you
know in writing the book I had to
revisit my life which was really
fantastic I had to go and I learned
things from that's why I say write the
book you'll learn things about your
family that you you neglect yours
because as family we take things for
granted
we'll think we know our parents will
think we know our grandparents but
really we know anecdotal pieces you know
anecdotal stories and then we know their
personalities which is more important
but there are small things I didn't know
you know for instance I didn't know that
my grandmother has almost a like a
photographic memory when it comes to
historical dates and events my
grandmother is as you know I think 96
years old and she can tell you to the
date when something significant happened
you know my mom and I don't remember
things and I'll say gran when did this
happen and then she'll go oh that was
July 1987 towards the 20s and you're
just like this is phenomenal how are you
doing this she remembers numbers your
history same thing she can tell me about
World War two she can tell me about
apartheid she could tell me and you know
and in in writing these stories in
connecting with the family I learned
small pieces about them as people I
learned how far we had come I learned
about you know struggles that I didn't
even know we had had growing up together
and and that is something I truly
appreciate and I would encourage anybody
to do it's interesting to say that
because actually the inverse is true of
the way that you talk to your father
because you were very keen to learn
about him you go meet him as a younger
adult and to try and learn about new
interview him and he says why are you
interrogating me the way you get to know
me is just by spending time with me yeah
and I mean I think that's part part of
him being Swiss
this was her pots with German I guess
you know the German partisan but you
know he was just I imagine I walk into
his world I open a notepad and I go
right so where were you born and what
were you this exact and he's like what
are you doing you know I said I'm into
I'm interview you I want to get to know
you because I had lost contact with my
father for ten years and so I wanted to
catch up immediately once I had
reconnected with him I wanted to let's
let's get this thing going
let's build this relationship and and
he's in he stopped and he said he said
he said what do you you know he asked me
to ask him questions and he you don't
you beat around the bush and he would
give me one word answers and then
finally he said to me he said if you're
trying to get to know me this is not the
way to do it he said you get to know a
person through time he says to spend the
time with me and then you'll get to know
who I am and my mom and dad were very
different in that regard you know my mom
is forthcoming and she she would over
share you know she like as a mom you can
imagine I was 10 years old and my mom
would be telling me about sex and how
you know how as a man you should look at
foreplay and how and I'm 10 I'm 10 and
she wouldn't go into graphic detail but
she would just tell me random it's like
when I would come into my mom's head if
I was there she would she would say it
to me she just turned and she'd go you
know Trevor when you with your woman
don't forget to please her you know
Trevor so many men think that sex is
just for them and they think that they
so fantastic take your time with your
woman Trevor show her your look and I'm
you're sitting there and I remember with
my like tiny Tony the Tiger teaspoon
that I used to eat my cereal and I was
like I'm sorry are you talking to
somebody else in this room but she was
you know my mom just basically was like
this is a data dump you will need this
information I don't know when but you
know and then it was two different
people which I guess is why they
connected so well
well there's a mix of styles in the way
that you've written the book but it
sounds way it really sounds like
standard but I can hear your voice in it
there are bits where it does feel like a
novel times when it feels like so
classic orthography there are also
moments in there and obviously it needs
some light relief of it throughout it
because you
difficult circumstances with bits that
are just almost pure bits of stand-up
and there's a wonderful
I think it's on page 42 um it'd be
lovely if you perhaps people the people
you know the book inside out will know
and I think it's a bit that I've put the
this is I won't ruin it but this is my
favorite bit of the book you know it's
funny all my friends this is their
favorite part of the book because they
know my life but this is a story that I
never really told anyone my mom who I
don't think has read the full book yeah
I don't she says she doesn't want to
read it
she's very strange to go she doesn't
want to read it because she doesn't want
to spoil the ending for people when she
meets them in the streets so my mom says
people come up to and they go we love
the book and she goes oh that's so great
to hear tell me about it and she says
that if she reads it she will not be
interested in here she'll like tell them
oh I know how it ends and I'm like but
you know how it ends because you are in
it yeah but she doesn't see it that way
so you know but this is one story that
no one in the family knew about before I
wrote it so I loved it and I suppose
this is a philosophy I suppose this is
peace but to catch you up in it I mean
it's not a spoiler or anything but it's
the story of we didn't happen we didn't
have an indoor toilet growing up okay
and this was a comment for most people
in in a where I was we had an outdoor
toilet and about four or five families
would share that toilet that was in the
yard we had a house that was two rooms
and so one room was a kitchen slash
living room / dining room area just like
very open plan and then the other room
was a bedroom a grouping about it's the
same saying yeah same vibe you know what
it's like it's like a little London flat
London flag with more racism that's all
it was so so this is the story I'll read
from just just a little bit above we
where you've selected yeah so I would be
in the house locked up you know I wasn't
allowed to go outside because my
grandmother was afraid that the police
would take me away to an orphanage
because I would be a colored kid in a
black neighborhood so one afternoon when
I was around five years old my gran left
me at home for a few hours to go run
errands I was lying on the floor in the
bedroom reading I needed to go to the
bathroom but it was pouring down rain I
was dreading going outside to use the
toilets getting drenched running out
there water dripping on me from the
leaky ceiling wet newspaper the Flies
attacking me from below then I had an
idea why bother with the outhouse at all
why not put some newspaper on the floor
and do my business like a puppy that
seemed like a fantastic idea so that's
what I did I took the newspaper laid it
out on the kitchen floor pulled down my
pants and squatted and got to it now
when you as you first sit down
you're not fully in the experience yet
you are not yet a person you're
transitioning from a person about to
to a person who is you
don't whip out your smartphone or
newspaper right away it takes a minute
to get the first out of the way and
get in the zone and get comfortable once
you reach that moment that's when it
really gets nice it's a powerful
experience there's something
magical about so profound even I think
God made humans in the way we do
because it brings us back down to earth
and gives us humility I don't care who
you are
we all the same
Beyonce shits the Pope shits the Queen
of England shits when we should we
forget our ears and our graces we forget
how famous or how rich we are all of
that goes away you are never more
yourself than when you are taking a
you have a moment where you realize this
is me this is who I am
you can repeal without giving it a
second thoughts but not so with
Singh have you ever looked in a baby's
eyes when is it's having a
moments of pure self-awareness Oh
I think you've expressed what so many
people have felt for so long and managed
to put into words how so many versus
felt I mean they're the bits where that
that doesn't necessarily have to be in
the book about growing up in apartheid
South Africa that's it's just a great
piece of philosophy well well thank you
for it oh man I appreciate that look
here's the thing and this is what I try
and explain to people you know I often
get frustrated because I think we we a
lot of the time we we like to live in a
world where we act like everything is
good or bad everything is black or white
everything nuance is really where the
world exists the world exists in the
gray not in the black white you know and
we see this over and over with different
themes you know you know racism has its
nuances to it you know whatever
conversations you're having have the
nuances growing up in South Africa
during apartheid was not just one
experience you are still having
experiences in an amongst those of
oppression and pain and suffering there
are still moments of joy there are still
moments of a family coming together
there are still moments where I'm
hanging out with my mom there are still
moments where I have to you know
you and that's that's when telling the
story when I tell a story I like to
think of everything that is happening I
I don't like to you know I because I
didn't want to write a book where it's
like Oh neither was me or even I'm angry
at this my world was only apart right
now you know my mom always told me to be
grateful and my mom always told me to
focus on everything that was happening
yes we can acknowledge that there was
the system that was oppressing us but at
the same time don't let that detract
from the beautiful family you have don't
let that detract from the laughter that
your experience don't let that detract
from your family and your community and
the world that you you also get to be a
part of and and so when writing the book
I wrote it the way I think and that is
even in the worst moments there are
there are sometimes funny thoughts that
you'll have you you know it's it's like
a giggle that comes at a Funeral not
supposed to be laughing but there will
always be that moment where someone just
you know something comes up a story
an idea and that's what we are as humans
you know that our emotions do not always
present themselves at the right time and
that's how I try to tell the stories in
the book I wonder did you change any of
the names of the book let me think
in the UK I think I had to but I didn't
in the in the South African book because
in the UK you're libel laws are a lot
more strict like here the way it works
is but even if you say that the purse
they can say that no I didn't even if
they did it's a very strange system
which I guess I understand you know but
I'm lucky in that I come from a place
where if you can back it up and then you
can you can write it's as simple as that
and and also I didn't I didn't feel the
need to change it on my side because I I
was not trying to disparage anybody I'm
not trying to say something you know
egregious about anybody in the book I
was thinking specifically about Abel
your mother's abusive ex Paul that names
not challenged no but well I wondered if
it had because I just thought for your
own safety and for your mother's safety
this guy was was abusive to a very
violent extent yes and I wondered if
perhaps that was something you might be
mindful of well here's the thing
one of the one of the many wonderful
gifts of Fame or celebrity is that you
know when the tabloids tell those
stories they don't try and obscure
anything they put your life out there
and you know they butcher the stories
and tell it the way they think it is and
they they leave out most of the details
but they the one thing they don't afford
you is any privacy and so in telling
those stories I wasn't saying a name
that wasn't a newspaper I wasn't telling
a story that wasn't in some way
sensationalized or told before the one
thing that had never happened was the
story had never I had never told the
story I had never shared with the person
the intricacies of the world you know
because the sensational story is just
Trevor Noah's mother got shots that's
and it's like wow as it just came out of
Noah and I'm like it it leaves so much
out
it doesn't talk to the fact that abuse
is a gradual and dangerous path that
many people go down it doesn't talk to
the fact that abuse is oftentimes you
know not encouraged but rather not
stamped out the way it should be by the
system's that we live in you know the
police often turn a blind eye because
I've learned unfortunately growing up
the day - or men you know a lot of time
men will group together and be like oh
yes I'm it's a man I understand as a man
as a man I see why you did it as a man
you know we live in a society where
we're you you see that all too often so
I I wasn't afraid to do that and
truthfully my mom is the one who does
not believe in living the life of fear I
asked her about these stories all the
time I asked her why she still lives in
the same neighborhood where my
stepfather is you know and she said she
said why must I move and that was always
her theme in life same with an apartheid
government I said why didn't you leave
the country and she said but this is my
country you know and I said why would
you still be in the same neighborhood
staying in this Inn in a house that is
you know very much within striking
distance there's a man who shot you and
my mom says where she says honey if you
run in life you'll run forever wait
you're gonna run too
she says you I'm gonna keep running and
then what I'm gonna spend my life
looking over my shoulder and she goes no
she goes no she says and that's where my
mom's extreme religion and just
stubbornness kicks in and she goes she
said the man tried to kill me and I'm
still here so she says so unless he has
another plan I don't know what it's
gonna be
she says but he did what he need what he
wants it to do you know and he shot me
in the head and I'm still here so so I
guess you know what what else what what
should I be afraid of what what is worse
than this you know and I cope well you
could die and she's like I'm not afraid
to die and she's this because then I go
I go and I meet my maker I'm like oh no
you know and we we we arguing we fights
about that but I I do understand where
she's coming from
and I do admire that in my mom you know
because unfortunately you know I had to
face the fact that I I was in a country
that has a horrible record of protecting
women against domestic abuse you know
many of us see that in many different
situations it is not prioritized it is
it's always seen as the if only we knew
and it's always the same story when I
was watching the oj documentary and I
couldn't believe the parallels it always
starts with a slap it always starts with
a story it always starts with a minor
incident and people always let that
slide let it slide let it slide let it
slide and then you go she was killed and
if you if you read the statistics in any
country you will be shocked at how many
murders take place and you can track it
back in domestic violence it's not a
surprise it's a it's a warning sign and
so the reason I wrote about it like that
in the book is because I wanted to share
that I want to share that experience
with people because I know so many
people are going through it and the sad
thing is we were afraid and we're
ashamed of sharing it shame is one of
the most powerful tool that surprisingly
you know oppressors use you know
domestic abusers use shame abuses of
children use shame to keep the victim
from claiming their justice and my mom
always said to me she said the honey I
won't be ashamed because some man
couldn't control himself you won't make
me ashamed because you're the person
who's done something wrong so the shame
must go back to where it belongs to the
person who broke the crime to the person
who laid their hands on me don't worry
about me I have nothing to be ashamed of
as we said your mom is the the heroine
of the book there are a lot of smaller
parts in the book and I wonder if any of
them have got in touch and I'm thinking
specifically of Zahira who said there be
people in this lose the committee
identify with this tale of her of a
young are you describe yourself as kind
of an awkward looking young chap at the
time I wasn't awkward looking I suffered
with extreme acne acne vulgaris I had
nodules on my face and I'm almost
offended sometimes when people go hole
you don't look like it like some people
say it like I don't know if I believe I
really did like that's like one of the
few things that gets me because I
remember what it was you know when
people go like oh you you don't have you
don't local I don't believe there then
they go show me the pictures then I go I
took no pictures because of this if you
saw yourself as a hideous human being
why would you be snapchatting yourself
you know and people don't get that and
and and it wasn't like basic acne I try
to explain it to people I you know I had
to go see a doctor I had these these
nodules that were on my face and the pus
would pour out of them and it looked
like I was having an allergic reaction
continuously you know I was ashamed in
school I mean I remember at one time at
the height of my embarrassment I was
like buying makeup you know I applying
makeup and putting like till this day
when like women tell me about I'm like I
know trust me I know I know I know what
it's like you put the makeup on to hide
your skin and the makeup makes your skin
worse and now you've got worse and now
you're putting more make and it's this
vicious cycle and then at night you
doing a wash it over you're tired but
you know if you don't in the morning and
wake up and then it's gonna be your
pillows got the thing and you just like
you know then they turn you wipe it like
I know I hated that and I I hated myself
you know so so yeah that's like I I had
that and growing up with like that's
imagine that you you in this world of
race and all of these things but one
thing that's universal is this
awkwardness as a teenager as a you know
growing pains here I was and at that
point I didn't care about racism or
apartheid or anything I was like those
are not my issues
this right here this right here is the
main issue and yeah and the hero was a
person who somehow I guess saw through
that but it's it's a classic tale of
teen angst because you effectively put
yourself in the friendzone with this
very beautiful girl
you never pluck up the courage to ask
around never and then you find that
she's moved to America and then the
hammer blow of the story is the
following day when her friend says to
you oh she was just waiting for you to
ask around yeah that is yeah the man
I've had nightmares about that if ever
there was a thing in my life that taught
me about regret it was that I'm glad
that happened to me when it did because
it happens to me at such a young age
that I think it has been the propellant
that has fueled my drive in every aspect
of my life I I load the regrets I loathe
the idea of not knowing so many times as
people we do not do because we were
afraid we are afraid of rejection
fundamentally that is the number one
thing we are afraid of it's the reason
we don't speak up in an office it's the
reason we don't say we have a good idea
it's the reason we don't try and do what
we want to do because we are afraid we
are afraid of being rejected by the
tribe where we want to belong not
realizing that if we if we realize our
true selves we will find the tribe where
we belong and and you know in that
moment imagine that this was a girl was
in my opinion the most beautiful girl in
school she looked like a young Salma
Hayek and every guy was like she's so
beautiful and she would speak to me and
she'd speak to me as a person and she
gave me her phone number her landline
like if you're a young person in this
audience you don't understand that I
don't understand what I'm talking about
there was a landline which had more
snakes than a mobile number because a
landline meant there were parents
involved in the equation meant when I
called her house someone would answer
the phone and I would have to go through
them to get to her and still she
entrusted me with that and she liked me
as a person and I never I was like I do
not
chance she is the girl that everyone
likes and then I found out afterwards no
she liked you too if you had just said
something she may have and you see that
that not knowing is something that I I
don't believe in in life because you can
never go back you can never know you can
never fail if you're gonna fail failing
is an answer then you know you know you
say I love you to her personally say I
do not love you back yes it is painful
but now you know now you know and that
for me is a thing that I use in life is
just like just don't live with regrets
we've got about 20 minutes left and
we've got some questions from the
audience
varying degrees of quality James drain
where's James are you gonna call
everybody out I feel like you're putting
them on the spot when you do that
question first name and shame the person
and this one James is a good question
which experience is more terrifying
visiting an American emergency room your
first night on The Daily Show or sharing
a Ferrari with Jerry Seinfeld Oh which
one is it let's think easily easily
first nights on The Daily Show sharing a
Ferrari with Jerry Seinfeld
I've never felt more comfortable because
by the time you know I've lived a very
blessed life and by the time I was
sitting in a Ferrari with Jerry Seinfeld
I had had the luxury and the you know
the the privilege of having had sat in a
Ferrari before and Jerry's a comedian
I'm a comedian
I see him as a peer and a mentor going
through the emergency room in America
frightening experience but I mean you
know the doctors were great and it was
panicky but it was it was whatever the
first night of The Daily Show was one of
the few times in my life where I can
remember everything it's like it's more
than nerves it's panic it's it's a
moment where you that's where that doubt
comes in everything came rushing to my
head you're a fraud
you're not funny it's too
what are you doing here you're dumb this
is America why are you even in this
country what what are you what are you
doing go home it's not too late if you
walk away now they can't say anything
about you just like disappear just go
like so many things were playing in my
mind so many doubts because I was like
they're going to reject me they're going
to reject me I'm so afraid
and I was like and then what if I get
rejected by my country because now I'm
the South African who's doing the thing
I'm the African who's doing the thing
and then if I fail now have I
embarrassed my country do I embarrass my
continent how does this work and then do
I embarrass biracial people as well I'm
barren like did you get I'm saying there
were all of these things and then in my
head I'm like oh geez what if I'm the
Piers Morgan of The Daily Show like what
happens now I am thinking of all these
things and it was so so brutal because
that's what happens to us is you know
when you have an opportunity that's when
that phrase you know when that when that
when that poem made sense to me our
greatest fear our greatest fear is not
that we are inadequate our greatest fear
is that we are powerful beyond all
measure that's really I understand that
because it's it's so much easier to
shovel and to just go no I didn't want
to do it anyway I didn't you know just
just walk away because then you you
never have to take on that
responsibility it was it was honestly
one of the most one of the most
frightening moments in my life and just
like many frightening moments in your
life once you've done it you then go
like oh this is this is not bad this
isn't you get better at doing it and you
you enjoyed and you still get nervous
but you slowly slowly grow into into
that space and you know I'm glad I'm
glad I jumped off the edge it's been a
fantastic ride one of the things that's
most striking from a comedians point of
view about the daily show is that
obviously the clues in the title but
most topical shows are weekly to have to
do it every day in terms of the industry
of turning that material around how much
pressure do you feel to to wake up in
the morning know you got deliver a brand
new show that night well you know what's
funny is when I when I was
the show you know once John left I
remember thinking I was like this is
this is madness because you is not news
every single day there isn't and to be
honest with you I don't think that they
should be news every single day I feel
like this year I feel like oh no but I
mean but I mean in general I don't feel
like they should be news every single
day and I think what has happened is
once news became business then the news
organizations found a way to create news
so that it could fill up every single
day you know we we used to live in a
world where I always say to people I go
why do you need breaking news right that
you really need breaking news do you
need to know at 8 a.m. that Fidel Castro
passed away do you need to know that do
you need like how does that change your
day
would you like was there like a Cuban
vibe in your world where this was
oppressing in you like in your world in
England in America why was that pressing
you specifically oftentimes it isn't we
have been taught that we need to know
immediately what this person has died
what this has just happened what there
are a few things we need to know in an
instant but it fuels that cycle and I
didn't I didn't believe in it so yeah I
was just like you know I was like this
is crazy and then a man by the name
Donald J Trump came along and he
possessed within himself the ability to
manufacture so much news you know I used
to watch comedy shows and I still do
comedy shows and cartoons and I would
sometimes get frustrated you know you
see characters that seemed to bumble
into so many things where you'd be like
this is not realistic
you can't trip that many times you can't
fumble that in many instances you can't
and yet Donald J Trump without fail
manages to create a new scandal every
single we have never seen anything like
it
like at some point your sharpness is
shocked you can't be shocked anymore
like I feel like people don't need to
pay for Botox anymore because the faces
are permanent and stuff like this he
just does it and now we're in a space
where I sometimes feel like we can't
even keep up because now I'm in a space
where I'm going can we wait can we wait
why are we done talking about that why
are we done talking about the fact that
this man is you know his business
interest is like what do you mean
something happened at the theater what
do mean something happened at Hamilton
that's a new story what do you mean
something happened what do you say who
did he just a point isn't a person known
racist wait what's going on we still
haven't talked about that story and I
feel like Donald Trump has learned the
secrets to outwitting the news is to
just keep creating more it's supply and
demand so what he does is he over
creates you know it's a I remember
watching a classic scene from a you know
the American sitcom I Love Lucy and this
is fantastic conveyor belt scene where
it's even in a lot of comedies where the
conveyor belt just starts coming out
faster than you can and that's what
Donald Trump is almost done it's like
now you just you don't have to like just
go white whatever we'll let that extent
we'll go that the scandal can go
whatever it's right and and so it is a
lot of pressure but it's also it's also
very enjoyable and most importantly I
think I've come to realize that I have a
gift and that gift has been that you
know I was bequeathed with a you know a
beautiful platform an amazing platform
Jon Stewart created an amazing legacy
and one thing that he gave me that a lot
of people didn't realize was he gave me
the freedom to use that legacy to shape
what I believe a new show should be and
that was one of the most beautiful
things and he warned me about that he
said hey everyone's gonna tell you to
make my show everyone's gonna tell you
to make the show they think you should
make he said I want you in that chair
because I know you won't and so every
single day I work on creating that and
it is crazy it is pressure but I you
know I think it makes me a better person
and it keeps me in touch with what's
happening in the world
[Applause]
this one's from Melissa Dixon and it
touches on something you said there if
you have five minutes with Donald Trump
what would you ask him
Wow this shouldn't really be restricts
its questioning should it really if I
have five minutes with Donald Trump what
would you do to him that's a better
question what would I ask him why how
must know why is it tough you know I
think the the one question I would like
to know is how much could people pay you
to not be present
[Laughter]
[Applause]
because it's it is a joke but I'm
telling you now he has a number even
asks when and how did you know that you
wanted to be a comedian
I don't think I haven't knew for certain
that I wanted to be a comedian
I've always loved entertaining people
I've always loved making people laugh
you know in school and I always had
jokes I like to creating jokes as a kid
you know which was something that I
enjoyed and when I got older I I was
always you know we're at a barbecue got
a bride we call them in South Africa I
was telling people's stories I I loved
it but I didn't know that I wanted to be
a comedian I feel like my friends and
family knew that I was suppose to be a
comedian before I did and I'm glad that
they did because the reason I got on
stage for the first time was because my
cousin told me to my cousin and and my
best friend at the time we're living in
a house together we went out to a little
comedy evening at her at a restaurant
and you know thanks to them coaxing me I
got onto the stage I never would have
gotten onto the stage again self-doubts
again believing that you know I wasn't
as good or as funny as anything I just
didn't believe in myself you know and
then I I'm glad that they believed in me
and sometimes that's what you need in
life is people who believe in you more
than you believe in yourself and so I
got onto the stage I've never felt more
at home and I didn't get paid for a long
time and I was like this is fun though
this did you know comedy was and still
is my hobby and you know I feel like
that's what most people should try and
do is live in a space where you are
doing what you love and it's hard
because we have been taught that there
are certain success you know there's
certain bars of success that we're
trying to achieve you know we're being
taught that you know everyone's being
taught it's lawyer doctors you know
stock mark whatever it is everyone looks
at success in the same way I've come to
realize and whenever I look at my life I
look at the balance sheet of my life and
I go I don't count just the money
I count the value of my experiences so I
count the money of my friendships I
count the money of my
relationships I can't the money or
family account the money of enjoying the
world learning languages existing and
that for me is how I calculate my net
worth because we've learned all too
often there are people with all the fame
all the money and sometimes it's sad
because we only learn it when they
commit suicide but they don't have
everything because it isn't everything
and and so for me with stand-up that is
that is truly my passion I love doing it
I'm not doing it to get somewhere else
all people were like on a daily show and
I'm like no no I do stand-up the daily
show is a wonderful addition to my life
but stand-up comedy talking to people
making them laugh that's what I love
doing it'll always be my hobby it'll
always be what I do and I'm glad it
found me in terms of ambition then do
you have a sense of what you would like
to do next because the daily show is is
a pinnacle of sorts also you've got a
book out or film something you're
interested in making do you think about
the future much yeah what I've learned
is I you can you can create within the
space that you love you know when I say
to people do what you love it doesn't
mean one thing find what you were
passionate about as a person and then
look at all the different ways you can
exercise that passion you know so I
never thought I could write a book until
I set out to write it you know I think
it was Woody Allen who said 80% of
success is just turning up and that's
really what it is it's just just do it
just get out there and do it you know
enjoy yourself and and so you know I
will go into the world of film and I'll
see what happens you know I will I mean
I've done everything otherwise you know
I've been a radio DJ have been a
physical like a club DJ you know mixing
on vinyls I I've done stand-up comedy
I've hosted television shows I'm hosting
a show I I feel like I'm doing
everything and everything links back to
entertainment so I will explore every
opportunity that lies within that in
terms of ambition though that is not
necessarily my ambition that is what I
would like to explore and I enjoy it my
ambition
is to to find a way to change the world
that I live in and not in terms of
things that I say but all the things
that I do one of the most exciting
moments for me was realizing how much I
could do like with with my money which
sounds like a crazy thing but like I
understand why people like Bill Gates go
I'm gonna cure malaria doing good things
is addictive it's fun it's like it gives
you a challenge that's greater than
yourself my mom always used to say to me
I never used to understand my mom used
to say to me give and it will be given
unto you ten times when I was like that
makes no sense why don't I just take ten
times then I'll have it and you know I
remember one of the the best lessons
that stuck with me that my mom taught me
was she always taught me to share and I
hated her for it because as a kid you
know sometimes I would have food or I
have some some sweets and I remember one
day there was a little homeless kid on
the side of the road and he was begging
and all I had was my sweets and I was
holding them in my hand and he came up
to the window of our car and my mom gave
him money and in her car she always has
every single day she has money she goes
for my journey every person I meet that
needs money I'm going to give them like
she specifically has a holder for money
in her car just for that purpose and she
gave him money and then she said don't
you want to give him something and I was
like sounds like a money and she said
yeah but you've got some sweets share
the sweets and I looked at the kid and I
looked at her and I was like parents my
sweets and she said give him the sweets
and you know I looked at and I was like
but it's my sweets and she said and then
she did the most amazing thing she
reached into her purse and my mom like
loved licorice and like a bunch of the
sweets and she she pulled out a handful
like a giant handful of sweets and she
said to me here you can have these
sweets and now I was sitting there and
I'm like holding my sweets and then she
said yeah and I couldn't grab it wasn't
my hand wasn't big enough to take from
her hand and I was like I can't and then
she said you can't take the sweets and I
said no wait and then she said if you
had two hands you could take the sweets
I said
and then she said so how would you have
two hands and I looked at the kid and
then I realized and I gave him the
street and then I had my hands and it
was such a such a like a little game
that I didn't even realize at the time
because I was just coming back for these
sweets
but what my mom tricked me into
realizing was when you give you you know
when you give you have more room to get
you can you can get and it's like it's
almost a selfish thing that I love doing
but my ambition is to help as many
people in my world as I can and
sometimes people like you can't change
the world I'm like yeah just change your
world just just this world here just
this if I can do that then I'll you know
I'll be I'll be happy with myself Marcin
Balam asks my wife is South African and
sometimes she doesn't get my British
sense of humor how have you adjusted
your comedy to appeal to British and
Americans just not funny
and there is always a possibility
there's always a possibility I will say
this what is the biggest change I made I
came to learn that often times the
biggest change in the way we consume
comedy is just rhythm in in the UK in
Australia in America and South Africa as
humans we fundamentally laugh at the
same things you know we life has almost
all the same themes no matter where you
come from you know there's love there's
relationships there are there all these
recurring themes that we go through but
it's the rhythm that changes so when I
came to the UK I actually enjoyed
exploring a side of myself that had been
influenced by the UK because you know
the fact that we were colonized meant
that English and you know the way it
penetrated our lives was very apparent
but I I never knew comedy from a British
standpoint I was new American comedy and
I started really my first foray into
international comedy in the US but I
always credit the UK with being the
place that forged me as a comedian that
had something
and it was it was two real instances for
me one was meeting idiot at the comedy
store and he said to me you're very
funny
but the things you say to me when we're
hanging out I want to hear you say that
on stage he said tell me your stories 10
I was like I didn't know who he was at
the time I was hilarious and I and he
wasn't in drag or anything so I just met
this guy backstage and he told me to
tell people about apartheid and I was
like you clearly don't understand comedy
but I'm gonna skip on that I don't think
people want to hear about these things
and he was like no he said if I was you
that is all I would be talking about and
I'd never told those stories before I
had never shared what it was like to
come from my world and who I was I just
made jokes about what I observed and and
that was the first instinct that was
what sparked it what galvanized it was
coming out and doing comedy in the UK
and that was Edinburgh and the Soho
Theatre and it was being in a space
where like British audiences I found
like British comedy is a great place for
the uncomfortable humor you know British
people I just think like being
uncomfortable it's just like like I feel
it just in conversation I feel it like
you know like on the tube everyone just
likes having like this all like Laura
I'm so uncomfortable right now assisting
and in comedy it's the same thing you
can feel British people find it funny
when it's you're uncomfortable the
offices like it's you know a perfect
example of that you know you do
uncomfortable watching david brin cello
I can't believe he's doing that he
doesn't even realize how cringe worthy
is and and that was something that I
learned to appreciate in the UK it was
it was the cringe-worthy moments more
importantly it was just was just the
honesty so that's that's what I changed
in in in performing I always say in the
world I've learned different things
about comedy you know in in South Africa
I learned how to be brutally honest I
learn how to be blunt you know and
that's what we're really great at in
South Africa we haven't gotten to a
place yet where we gloss over things we
don't like like in the UK I see people
who are even afraid to say like black
person you know that everyone will skirt
around it they were you know I was
hidden was in my hotel once and I'll
never forget I was trying to find a
friend of mine and then the woman in the
lobby was telling me oh there's somebody
looking for you and I said who and she
said oh there's a gentleman he's in the
lounge and so I went into the lounge and
there's just like a bunch of people and
there's packed I was like I don't know
why and she's like oh he's um he's a
tall not too tall not sure if it's got
curly hair you know um oh I don't know
he's wearing like a Jackie O and then I
went in and like walked around cuz I
didn't know this question is a friend
now I didn't know him at the time and
then the person stood up and waved and
he was the only black person in the room
and I was like you could have saved us
time if you just said there's a black
guy who's looking for you and she and
it's so funny outfit like oh no I wanna
say and I'm like yo there's nothing
wrong with saying somebody is black
because there's nothing wrong with being
black you got to understand that too
many times so um so yeah so so when it
came to that it was just it was
understanding the UK South Africa taught
me how to be blunt America taught me how
to perform which was really great you
know performance is really respected out
there and and the UK taught me how to be
honest which is a crucial part of my
comedy that I that I you know I think
has really helped me get to where I've
gotten to
it was a space where people were like
we're not in a rush for you to tell a
joke we want you to get to the honest
part of your story and then we will
laugh at that truth together and so what
I can say to Martin is you need to be
more honest with your wife I don't know
what it is I genuinely don't it's time
for one more question and it was a
special one and I've lost it so I'm
gonna have to ask you but I apologized
whoever wrote it but it's gonna sound
like I'm asking and it's I guarantee
that it's not but are you single and
will you marry me
that is from you isn't it romantic
I like how you disguised it as an
audience question I email the injure in
the week yeah that was from someone in
here no no I'm very lucky right now to
not be single but with regard to the
second answer well I don't know the
quick will I marry I don't know that's
the honest truth
so you know you never know what happens
in this world so so the answer is no I'm
not single and I don't know well
apologies to whoever asks question
[Applause]
almost not both I found the night well
that brings us the end Trevor oh I'm not
in charge don't take it out on me um
pretty bit of wonderful audience has
really have been amazing we could do
this all night this is fun he never
really we can't we can't actually but we
could find no no it's funny because he's
looking at his watch and they like they
we've got time and you know the people
have did the venue and they closed and
people work here and I would love to
hang out and this is another case way if
we were in Africa right now we could
just do it as long as we want because
because the truth is I've learned time
like race is a construct and Africans
were the foremost you know they
understood that before everybody did and
it's funny though because you know like
we will be like oh let's hang out here
and we could do that now I could I could
override the system and say guys we're
just gonna hang out which would be cool
but the thing I've learned like and this
happens specifically to me in British
like venues I will take more time on
stage than was allocated and then when I
go backstage nobody will say I did that
but then what everyone will do is
they'll have like that like it's like a
painful but it's it's a it's a it's a
very slight like I go like England's
just one ball of passive-aggressiveness
that's what it is
so like it would be someone a wolf
backstage and they won't say you went
over time they'll be like oh that went
better than expected didn't it yeah they
were really wonderful weren't they think
oh it's yeah that you seem like they
never want you to leave you are you
really are you know and then I'll be
like yeah but so do we have to yes
sirree we have to go fortunately we can
I'm sorry sorry that's can I tell you
that's probably my favorite thing about
the UK is how like I go like people here
almost suffer like an excess of empathy
I've never seen it anywhere else in the
world where a British person feels the
pain of what they think you feel in an
instance like how you know I walk to a
restaurant as they've closed I'll go so
[Applause]
it's honestly so much fun because I feel
like I'm like why you so much pain what
is going on and I always like to imagine
to myself I go if this is a British
thing that has always been I I now
rethink of like I like breathing of how
colonisation actually went cuz now I
picture like British people pitching up
in southern really like oh we're taking
that I'm so sorry
it's horrible so yeah so I mean
accurately I could do this all night
with you but we do have time limits but
I just want to say honestly from my side
I not appreciate you more I'm you know I
I acknowledge every single person who
supports me I I strive and endeavor
every single day to do my best and every
person south-african you know British I
mean what's funny to me is this was the
world that propelled me to The Daily
Show and I never forget that people ask
me all the time why do you school
travel the world where I go because the
world got me there and I want you to
know that I really appreciate every
single one of you for coming out for
supporting me for buying the book for
being here with us tonight and thank you
to you Matt you were amazing I really
appreciate that thank you pleasure thank
you everybody
thank you very much let's gentleman
Trevor Noah
[Applause]
you